DSC106 Project 3

https://jaw039.github.io/CardioInsight/

For our visualization, we aim to answer the question “How does oxygen consumption vary among different factors like age, weight, and temperature?” This would be measured by VO2 levels which is a great indicator of cardiovascular health where higher values are associated with greater fitness levels. VO2 levels can be affected by age, weight, and outside temperature could influence that value, which made us want to explore those variables and their effects on VO2.
To answer the question, we believed that a histogram plot would be the most appropriate to visualize our data. The histogram plot allows us to see a distribution of VO2 level measurements and their frequencies among different groups the user can select from. In our plot, the main purpose is to allow athletes to see how they stack up among their age group and gender. For instance, a health professional/ fitness trainer could utilize our graph to show what good VO2 levels are for them and assess their fitness level from there. This could also be used by individuals who are simply interested in how they stack up against people in their certain weight and age range as well.
As for our design choices, using a histogram offers the ability for the user to view the entire distribution of the VO2 levels depending on what they would like to filter on. Other graphs like a box and whisker plot or a scatter plot wouldn’t communicate to the user as effectively as those may now allow the user to see where they stand or require too much cognitive effort to understand. Regarding the histogram, we kept the colors simple by making blue and pink representing males and females, respectively. The bin widths are about two, which we believe is best suited because it’d help capture the entire range of VO2 levels well and make the graph not look blocky or excessive. In the axes, the x-axis is the VO2 levels and we made sure that the range we chose would incorporate all our data points and help center our graph toward the center of the screen.
When considering the interactive features, we believed that users would get the best comparison when they’re able to look at their age range, sex, weight, and temperature; this would offer the most insight for the user when looking at the visualization. To do that, we incorporated an intuitive slider that allows users to look at specific age ranges, weight ranges, and temperature ranges. All of these sliders work by incorporating anything within the range the user selects, and they can have all three active at the same time(i.e setting age range between 20-25, weight 60-65 kg, and Celsius 25-28) The values on the sliders cover the entire range of what was seen in our data as there weren’t extreme outliers or any missing values that had to be dealt with. Another interactive feature we included was a brush which allows the user to explore a specific part of the distribution, for instance, the amount of people in that part and the average VO2 of the highlight region.
For our group, all of us were able to incorporate some ideas for the visualization and we voted on which would best answer the question we proposed. The issues we faced were laying out our site to make the visualization easy to navigate, debugging interactive feature issues, and learning the syntax of D3. These issues were handled by looking at the documentation and using a lot of ChatGPT to help debug and enhance our visualization. As for the time dedicated to each part of our visualization, the most time consuming part was getting our filters to work and figuring out why our graph sometimes wouldn’t show any data for specific values we set in our filter. 
Jackie: created GitHub site & repo, coded histogram
Brian Docena: coded histogram
Brian Huynh: Write-up
Reva: coded histogram and visualization annotations

